hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain the properties of linear time invariant systems
as I have explained in the previous video characteristics of a linear time invariant system are determined by its impulse response
if we know the impulse response of a linear time invariant system
we can obtain the response of that system to any arbitrary input using convolution
let's move to the properties of linear time invariant systems
here we are going to explain these properties for discrete time linear time invariant systems but all these properties hold also for continuous time linear time invariant systems
convolution has commutative distributive and associative properties
these properties are expressed for discrete time systems
another property of linear time invariant systems is being memoryless
as we have defined earlier a system is said to be memoryless if its output at any given time depends only on the input at the same time
for a discrete time linear time invariant system this condition holds only when the impulse response is zero when n is not equal to zero
as a result of that the impulse response of a memoryless linear time invariant system is the scaled unit impulse response
another property is invertibility
if a system is invertible then an inverse system exists and if we cascade the inverse system to the original system we obtain the same input signal
if h of n is the impulse response of a linear time invariant system and h sub one of n is the inverse of that system
then the convolution of these two systems should yield the impulse function
another property is causality
a system is causal if the output at any time depends on values of the output at only the present and past times
the impulse response of a causal system satisfies the below condition
another property is stability
a system is stable if every bounded input produces a bounded output
the impulse response of a stable system satisfies the below condition
the step response of a discrete time linear time invariant system is the convolution of unit step with the unit impulse response
the step response of a discrete time linear time invariant system can also be defined as the running sum of its impulse response
we can recover the impulse response from the unit step response by taking first difference of the unit step response
in this video I have explained several properties of linear time invariant systems
let me know if you have any questions